





    Network Working Group                                  C. Stergiou et al
    Request for Comments: -BSP-                                 BibleSync WG
                                                                15 June 2014


          A Standard for Synchronized Co-Navigation of Bible Programs

    Status of this Memo

       This memo describes a protocol by which cooperating Bible programs
       with LAN access use multicast navigation packets to share navigation
       of programs.  This is a standard recommended for interoperation in
       any network-aware Bible program.  Distribution of this memo is
       unlimited.

    Overview and Rationale

       Use of multiple Bible applications is common and requires repeated
       operations in order to remain synchronized among the applications
       used.  Scenarios for this use include a single user working with more
       than one application, possibly on more than one computer; a small
       group working together; or a classroom environment where a set of
       speakers has an audience who follow the speakers’ direction.
       BibleSync provides a means by which network-aware applications can
       provide navigation packets when the user moves his Bible to a new
       reference, and receive navigation packets from other users.  The
       protocol sends reference indicators, not content.

    Operational Modes

       BibleSync defines three modes: Personal, Speaker, and Audience.  In
       Personal mode, the application both sends and listens to navigation.
       In Speaker mode, the application sends but does not listen, and
       conversely in Audience mode, the application listens but does not
       send.  Speaker and Audience modes are each in effect half of Personal
       mode.

    Network Addressing

       Multicast address 239.225.27.227 is used with UDP port 22272.
       Typical TTL of 1, default in most systems, is used in the normal
       case.  In the special case of strictly personal usage by one user
       with more than one application on a single host, a privacy mode is
       available by setting multicast TTL to 0, so the user’s entirely
       internal navigation is not also heard over the wire.






    Stergiou et al                                                 [Page 1]





    RFC -BSP-              BibleSync Protocol - DRAFT           15 June 2014


    Packet Structure

       Payload maximum length is 1280 bytes.  Within this, the first 32
       bytes are a header identifying the sender’s protocol version, message
       type, and UUID, and the remaining space consists of name/value pairs,
       within which a number of the names are required for each of the
       defined message types.  In C++, the complete structure is represented
       below, with field details following:

           typedef struct {
               uint32_t  magic;        // 4 bytes
               uint8_t   version;      // 1 byte
               uint8_t   msg_type;     // 1 byte
               uint16_t  num_packets;  // 2 bytes
               uint16_t  index_packet; // 2 bytes
               uint8_t   reserved[6];  // 6 bytes
               uuid_t    uuid;         // 16 bytes
               char      body[1248];
           } BibleSyncMessage;

       The magic value is 0x409CAF11, by which to determine that a packet is
       intended for BibleSync.

       The protocol version is 2.

       Three message types are defined: 1 = presence announcement, 2 =
       navigation synchronization, 3 = speaker availability beacon.

       Currently BibleSync is specified as a single packet protocol, but the
       number of packets and packet index fields are included for possible
       future expansion.  At this time, number of packets must be 1 and
       packet index must be 0.

       The application provides a UUID (see RFC 4122).  The UUID is
       consistent through the life of the application, i.e., it is generated
       once when BibleSync first begins to be used, and that value is not
       re-generated as long as the application runs.

       Six bytes are reserved for possible future definition.

       Packet maximum size (1.25 Kbytes) was chosen on the basis of staying
       within one MSS on a typical Ethernet.

    Packet Type Overview

       The presence packet announces the application’s participation in the
       conversation.  It is non-essential, but useful if the application
       designer chooses to make it visible to the user.



    Stergiou et al                                                 [Page 2]





    RFC -BSP-              BibleSync Protocol - DRAFT           15 June 2014


       The navigation packet specifies a Bible name and a reference.  It may
       also contain an alternate reference to provide a second means of
       interpretation so that e.g. differing Bible versifications might be
       accommodated.  An application sends navigation synchronization when
       the user navigates the application to a new reference point.  A
       listening application receives the reference information and
       navigates there without needing user interaction.

       The speaker beacon packet is identical to the presence announcement
       except for having message type 3, and is sent by transmitting
       applications every 10 seconds.

    Speaker Beacons

       An exclusion mechanism was deemed necessary during early
       experimentation with the first implementation that provided only
       presence announcement and navigation synchronization.  It was found
       to be too easy for a confused or malicious user to mis-start
       BibleSync in his application in Personal or Speaker mode and thereby
       to navigate other users’ applications inappropriately, because all
       claims to speaker status were implicitly accepted by the mere arrival
       of navigation packets.

       Beacons provide this exclusion, by which senders (Personal or Speaker
       mode) advertise their availability to be listened to by receivers
       (Personal or Audience mode).  It is up to the application designer to
       implement an appropriate listen policy, for which the default should
       be that the first beacon-recognized speaker is automatically listened
       to, and subsequent beacons are recognized as potential speakers but
       are ignored.  This handles the usual good case where, in a classroom
       setting, a single application in Speaker mode correctly identifies
       itself and all other participating applications in Audience mode need
       to listen to that speaker.  Another application subsequently claiming
       speaker status is operating in error, and is to be ignored.

       The application must provide a means by which error or malice on the
       part of potential speakers is managed, that is, by which the user can
       choose which potential speakers should be heard and which should be
       ignored.  For example, if a proper speaker and an interloper are both
       claiming speaker status by sending beacons, and a newly-started
       application begins to listen, it may first hear the interloper’s
       beacon and begin listening to it.  The user must be able to consult a
       list of potential speakers and pick the one(s) actually needed.

       Beacons must be sent at least every 10 seconds.  Receivers must track
       speaker beacons, aging speakers toward removal.  Each new beacon for
       a speaker restarts its aging countdown.  A potential speaker that has
       gone beacon-silent for 30 seconds is considered a dead speaker and is



    Stergiou et al                                                 [Page 3]





    RFC -BSP-              BibleSync Protocol - DRAFT           15 June 2014


       removed from the list of available speakers.

       Navigation synchronization received without beacon support is
       ignored.

    Name/value Pairs

       Names may be constructed from any characters other than ’=’, newline,
       and NUL.  Values may be constructed from any characters other than
       newline and NUL.

       Name/value pairs are newline-terminated, not newline-separated.  The
       distinction means that the last pair also must end in a newline.

       Continuation lines are not supported.

       There are 12 names defined for use in the body.  The application may
       provide any others its designer finds useful, but these names define
       the protocol’s interoperability.

        1. msg.sync.passPhrase

           Required.  A free-form phrase to separate distinct BibleSync
           conversations.  This allows e.g. multiple Bible classes to be
           taught without mutual interference.  A packet not matching the
           receiver’s passphrase is ignored.

        2. app.inst.uuid

           Required.  The application’s UUID, repeated in printable form.

        3. app.user

           Required.  Identification of the human user.

        4. app.name

           Required.  Identification of the application.

        5. app.version

           Optional; recommended.  The application’s version stamp.

        6. app.os

           Optional.  Identification of the OS under which the application
           runs.




    Stergiou et al                                                 [Page 4]





    RFC -BSP-              BibleSync Protocol - DRAFT           15 June 2014


        7. app.device

           Optional.  Identification of the application’s device (hardware).

        8. msg.sync.bibleAbbrev

           Required in navigation.  The short textual name of the Bible
           (e.g. "KJV").

        9. msg.sync.verse

           Required in navigation.  A textual Bible reference.  It is the
           application’s responsibility to use appropriate reference syntax;
           see references below for OSIS and BibleRef.  This value may not
           be just a single reference, that is, it may be a multiple
           reference generated as a search result or a cross-reference
           footnote in the sender’s application.  In general, multiple
           references can be specified using ’;’ to separate complete
           references, ’,’ to separate individual verses, and ’-’ to
           identify a verse or chapter range.  The application designer must
           remain aware that the packet size limit means that at most a few
           dozen references will fit.  A receiving application should
           present a multiple reference to the user as a selection list
           without navigating.

       10. msg.sync.altVerse

           Optional.  Another textual Bible reference, used as a possible
           assist to applications that might not parse the primary reference
           in msg.sync.verse.

       11. msg.sync.group

           Required in navigation.  A synchronization group number, a single
           ASCII digit, ’1’ through ’9’, the interpretation of which is left
           to the application.  This may be used to identify a related group
           of windows displayed by the application, or a tab number within a
           tabbed interface, or a wrapping sequential identification of
           synchronization.  The application should send group ’1’ if it has
           no specific need for this, and may ignore it on navigation
           receipt if such values have no meaning.

       12. msg.sync.domain

           Required in navigation.  This field has a fixed value of "BIBLE-
           VERSE" but its use will be expanded in future revisions.





    Stergiou et al                                                 [Page 5]





    RFC -BSP-              BibleSync Protocol - DRAFT           15 June 2014


    Security Considerations

       BibleSync is a protocol defined for a friendly environment.  It
       transmits cleartext with no anticipation of encrypted content, and
       any packet sniffer can see what is going on, including the passphrase
       (that being nothing more than a conversation discriminant).

       Spoofing must be defended against.  That is, the identity of a
       speaker is visible to all, and a malicious user can generate
       artificial packets which appear to be from someone else, thereby
       possibly impersonating a legitimate speaker and inducing others’
       applications to navigate inappropriately.  The application should
       retain enough information from the first beacon received from each
       speaker so that subsequent packets can be verified.  Specifically,
       the application should check that the UUID of a packet is coming from
       the same IP address from which the speaker was first heard.  It is
       important that the first beacon be transmitted before the presence
       announcement, because both contain the UUID, and an interloper could
       begin to impersonate the legitimate speaker via contrived beacons and
       navigation before the legitimate speaker himself begins to transmit
       his own.  The UUID’s presence in the 1st beacon packet prevents
       interlopers from being able to do this.

    Example Packets

       Presence announcement:

           magic: 0x409caf11
           version: 0x02
           type: 0x01
           uuid: 00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff
           #pkt: 1
           pkt index: 0
           app.name=TestBibleApp
           app.inst.uuid=00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff
           app.user=John Doe (jdoe)
           msg.sync.passPhrase=qwerty

       Beacon is identical to presence announcement except for being type 3.

       Navigation:

           magic: 0x409caf11
           version: 0x02
           type: 0x02
           uuid: 00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff
           #pkt: 1
           pkt index: 0



    Stergiou et al                                                 [Page 6]





    RFC -BSP-              BibleSync Protocol - DRAFT           15 June 2014


           app.name=TestBibleApp
           app.inst.uuid=00112233-4455-6677-8899-aabbccddeeff
           app.user=John Doe (jdoe)
           msg.sync.passPhrase=qwerty
           msg.sync.domain=BIBLE-VERSE
           msg.sync.group=1
           msg.sync.bibleAbbrev=NET
           msg.sync.verse=Rom.14.4

       Additional name/value examples, optional use:

           app.version=2.7a
           app.os=Linux
           app.device=i686
           msg.sync.altVerse=1Mac.1.2

       Real-world example, using all defined names:

           magic: 0x409caf11
           version: 0x02
           type: 0x02 (sync)
           uuid: 49b387bd-6324-4a2e-871a-4b24e065bff7
           #pkt: 1
           pkt index: 0
           app.name=Xiphos
           app.version=3.2.1
           app.inst.uuid=49b387bd-6324-4a2e-871a-4b24e065bff7
           app.os=Linux
           app.device=x86_64: Linux @ awol.kleinpaste.org
           app.user=Karl Kleinpaste (karl)
           msg.sync.passPhrase=BibleSync
           msg.sync.domain=BIBLE-VERSE
           msg.sync.group=1
           msg.sync.bibleAbbrev=NET
           msg.sync.altVerse=
           msg.sync.verse=Rom.14.4

    References

       Original specification:
           http://biblesyncprotocol.wikispaces.com (u:General_Public p:password)
       OSIS:
           http://www.bibletechnologies.net/
       BibleRef:
           http://semanticbible.com/bibleref/bibleref-specification.html
       UUID:
           RFC 4122




    Stergiou et al                                                 [Page 7]





    RFC -BSP-              BibleSync Protocol - DRAFT           15 June 2014


       This specification alters and extends technical aspects of the original
       specification (cf. wikispaces, above), notably max packet size, size and
       alignment of header, speaker beacons, use of app.user, and stipulations
       regarding name composition and newline separation.  That document includes
       usage and policy details not appropriate to this form of specification.

    Copyright

       No copyright is claimed.  All documents, descriptions, manual pages, and
       source code for BibleSync are in the public domain.

    Contributor Addresses

       Costas Stergiou <root@theword.net>
       Karl Kleinpaste <karl@kleinpaste.org>
       William Mills <read_frequent@hotmail.com>
       Tim Morton <morton@bibleanalyzer.com>
       Craig Rairdin <craigr@laridian.com>

































    Stergiou et al                                                 [Page 8]


